HISTORY or THE ABIPONES. 223

company with Landriel, to their former abode.
On their return they were not only cordially re-
ceived, but liberally rewarded with the usual
presents, by Barreda, whom you would have
supposed either ignorant or unmindful of their
late desertion. All good men admired his pru—
dence in treating the savages, though culpable‚
with gentleness and kindness, like children,
who, when in error, are more easily induced
to amendment by toys than by threats or in-
fliction of punishment.

Certainly Barreda is to be praised for ab·
staining from unseasonable rigour, but his be-
stowing so many caresses on the Abiponian
chiefS, and promising more than he was able to
perform, was perhaps worthy of censure. The
Abipones, relying on this indulgence from the
Spaniards, whom they imagined afraid of them,
grew bolder in their attempts than before. Let
one example serve for all the rest. Barreda, on
his departure, left in the colony some bales of
woollen cloth, to pay the Spaniards hired to
guard the cattle. The Abipones, through the
artifices of the female captiveS, were deceived
into a belief that this eloth was intended for
their own clothing, and threatened to kill the
Father if he did not immediately give it up to
them. As they passed the night in unusual noise
and drinking, the Father was afraid that when

