'HISTORY or THE ABIPONES. 389

hunting, or ‘danger of the enemy called thern,
thither they went on swift horseS‚ subject to no
authority which could either prohibit their de-
parture, or enforce their speedy return3 for the
obedience which they paid their Caciques was
entirely spontaneous. They thought it insuf-
ferable to depend on the will of another‘within
the narrow limits of a colony, and to be confined
to their houses, like a snail to its shell. Though
free to range up and down the nearer plains
and woods at pleasure, they found them, from
being frequented by other hordes‚ despoiled of
those fruits and wild animals to the use of which
they had so long been accustomed, that, if de-
prived of them, even when plentifully supplied
with better food, they complained of being
starved and miserable. While they lived un-
controssed, like the birds which fly up and down,
liberal nature spontaneously offered thern food
without need os agriculture: but as all things
are not produced in all soiIS‚ they were con-
stantly under the necessity of migrating from
place to place, and this change of abode‚ and
variety of hunting, seemed to contain a sort of
charm for them.

In each of the colonies bees was distributed
amongst the inhabitants at stated hours of al-
most every day3 but by reason of the poverty of

c c 3 ”

