HISTORY or THE ABIPONES. 259

noble Spaniards, neither of whom belonged to
the army, and who were terrified at the appear-
ance of the AbiponeS, persuaded him to silence,
peace, and speedy departure. Refusing an in-
vitation to >dinner, the whole party returned
without delay to St. J eronymo, along with
Ychoalay, who afterwards told me he should
never have brought the Spaniards, had he been
aware that Alaykin’s soldiers were so numerous.
Our Abipones, emboldened by the hurried re-
turn of the Spaniards, made no hesitation in
sending one of their people to watch them, and
exhort them to hasten their journey, lest, if they
tarried on the way, they should be pursued by
the rest of the townsmen. Whilst the Spaniards
were still on their road, a tempest arose, with
rain, thunder, and lightning3 meantime, our
Abipones were celebrating this bloodless vic-
tory with songs and drinking, highly elated at
the idea of having baffled Ychoalay, and caused
him to come labour in vain.

This unseasonable visit of the Spaniards had
well nigh proved the destruction of my compa·
nion and myself 3 the Indians, persuaded that
we had acted in collusion with them, cruclly
persecuting us as traitors and enemieS. Not
one of them would enter our house or the
church3 not one would dcign to hold any con-
versation with us: so that we doubted not but

s 2

