msronv or THE ABIPONES. 255

few would attend to the sacred instructions at
mid-day. Almost all were engaged in pursuits
and studies of a different nature. Military ex-
peditions were undertaken one after another.
Alaykin,‘to testify his fidelity to the Spa-
niardS‚ and to clear himself from some suspi-
cions that were entertained against him, went
out against Oaherkaikin, and by threats or pro-
mises obliged him to give up the captives taken
in the woods where Lisondo and the other St.
Iagans had been lately slain. After a sort of
friendship had been simulated‚ rather than con-
tracted between Ychoalay and Alaykin‚ our
townsmen went to assist the Abipones of St.
Jeronymo in two expeditions against Debaya-
kaikin‚ from which, however, they derived more
loss than advantage. A warlike alliance did
indeed subsist for a short time between the in-
habitants of the two townS, but never any con-
cord in their hearts3 for our Abipones, ex-
tremely well disposed towards the N akaike-
tergehes, never thought of desiring that victory
might declare in favour of Ychoalay‚ whom they
hated, because he endeavoured to prevent them
from taking the horses of the Spaniards, and
often restored them, when taken, to their owners
by force3 enraged at which, -they employed
double craft and industry in their depredafflons,
not so much to indemnify themselves for their

