Hlsronv OF THE ABIPONES. 415

the morning, on the 2d of August, in the year
1765.

All these, and many more perhaps, employed
in establishing the religion of Christ amongst
the various nations of Paraguay, courageously
parted with their lives, or shed their blood in
the cause. Happy they who were allowed to
die for the sake of the Gospel! We who sur—
vived, though partakers of their toils and dan—
gers, seemed unworthy of so noble a fate as our
comrades in not being permitted to end our
lives in Paraguay. The royal mandate by which
we were ordered to return to Europe, for rea-
sons still unknown to US, being, in the words
of the decree, confined to the King's own breast,
was bitterer to us than any death3 it did in
fact hasten that of many who are at this mo-
ment floating on the ocean, or who fell victims
to a voyage of sour, nay of five months. Out of
some thirty J esuits who were carried to Europe
from the port of Euenos-Ayres‚ five only
reached Cadiz half alive, not to mention many
others who underwent the same fate in sailing
from other countries of Asia or America. All
well disposed persons grieved that men distin—
guished for piety and knowledge of various
kinds, who had rendered such signal services to
Christianity and to America, and who had been

