224 Htsronr oF THE Assrr‘oNEs‘.

intoxicated they would execute their threat of
taking away his life; and to avert this danger
delivered up, next day, all the eloth in his house
to the greedy and formidable savages.' In a few
days, at the command of the Provincial, I re-
moved from St. Xavier to that colony, accom-
panied by fifteen hundred Mocobian horsemen.
Great was my surprize to see a crowd of Abi-
pones, almost all clothed. in garments of the
same colour, riding out to meet us; for they
suspect 311 comers of hostile intentioris, and.
imagine them treacherously inclined. I reached
the court-yard of our house, surrounded and
almost overwhelmed by this troop of Abiponian
horsemen. Father Sanchez came out to meet
me, and rushed into my embrace. His figure,
dreSS, ancl appearance inspired me first with
terror, and afterwards with pity. He wore a hat
made of straw. His gown was dirty, worn, and
of no colour. His beard was long, thick, and
blacker than pitch. The affliction of his soul
appeared in his countenance. “ Were Ι 3 cap·-
tive at AlgierS, amongst the Moors‚” said. he,
“ my life would be more tolerable than amongst
these savages by whom you see me surrounded.''
Having entered his chamber, with the crowd of
Abipones still at my side, I opened my packet
to deliver the Bishop's letter to the Father‚
when they all thrust their hands into it, and not

