fflsroRY οι· THE ABIPONJQS. 101,

Alvarez‚ captain at Rio Segundo, and to Bena-
vides commander at Rio Seco. As soon as those
brave men took upon themselves the direction
of military affairs the Cordobans became holder,
and the Abipones more timid in their attacks,
especially after one of them had been taken in
the plain by a Cordoban soldier, and the for·
midable Pachieke, son of the Cacique Alaykin,
slain. When we returned to Europe, almost
all the Abipones deserted the colonies we had
founded and taken care of. Weary of the peace
and friendship which had been established be-
tween them and the Spaniards, they resumed
their arms, with what success is best known to
those who had. to contend with the savages,
enraged and distracted at our departure. I
have shown how formidable and destructive
the savage tribe of Abipones was to the whole
province, and how little the arms of the Spa-
niards availed to check and restrain them.
What fruit we had of our endeavours in sub-
duing and reclaiming them is yet to be related2

11 3

