398 ms‘rouv OF THE ABIPONES.

was produced there belonged of right to them.
Your whole stock of rhetoric was exhausted be-
fore you could eradicate these erroneous notions
from the minds of the Indians, which, however,
by excessive toil was at length effected ; for all
of them knew that, unless they promised peace
and sincere sriendship to the Spaniards, they
would never be received into our colonies, and
have the benefit of our instructions, All the
Indians in America intrusted to our care were
soldiers and tributaries of the Spanish Monarch,
not slaves of private individuals. This is to be
understood not only of the Guaranies and C'hi-
quitOS, but also of the Christian Mocobios,
Abipones‚ and all the other nations which we
civilized in Paraguay.

But let us suppose the Abipones to ,have
been prevailed upon to enter a colony, and
accept the sriendship of the Spaniards 3 ye
saints, what numerous and almost insurmount-
able obstacles remain to be overcome in effect—
ing their civilization! From boyhood they had
spent their whole time in rapine and slaughter‚
and had acquired riches, honourS, and high-
sounding names in the pursuit. How hard
then must it have been sor them to refrain their
hands from the Spaniards, to sit down in a
colony indigent and ingloriOUS, to cut wood
instead of enemies’headS, to exchange the spear

