flisronr oF THE ABIPONES. 127

high reputation amongst the Abipones, pro-
mised to induce his fellow-hordesmen to request
colonies for themselves, of the Spaniards. De-
bayakaikinâ€š chief of the Abiponian Caciques, at
length desired to live under our discipline, in
the territories of Sta. Fe3 but when the Gover-
nor of that city pointed out the banks of the
river Salado, to build the new colony upon, the
Abipones disapproved of that situation, and a
business of so much import was consequently
suspended: for Ychoalay, who possessed
much more penetration than the rest, said that
the Spaniards had pitched upon that situation
with a design of rendering the Abipones sub-
servient to their will, as they had done with
regard to the remainder of the Calchacuis in
Carcarafial. The dread of slavery disconcerted
these useful measures, to the great disadvantage
both of the SpaniardS, and of themselves. By
what means the whole Abiponian nation was
settled in four colonieS, remains to be circum-
stantially related.

