'298 msTORY oF THE ABIP‘ONES.

warned him by signs. To flattery he added
plenty of promises, (to which he never stood,)
saying that another expedition against the
Guaranies prevented him from giving them
satisfaction at that time, but that as soon as
the present war was finished, he would go out
‘against the Mocobios, with some companies of
horse. Having said this, he hastened back to
the city under pretext of business, his coming
having served no other end than that of irri-
tating still further the minds of the Indians. No
one could suggest any remedy for the affiicted
colony which seemed sinking to ruin: amid
continual attacks from the savages, or the
‘⁷ apprehension of them, years passed away—
years barren of comfort, but fruitful of mis-
fortuneS. Yet still more pernicious than any
foreign foe was the unfortunate society of
Debayakaikin's AbiponeS‚ both to the improve-
ment and domestic affairs of the town; induced
by their examples, or relying on their support,
our Yaaukanigas frequently dared to make
inroads into the lands of Cordoba, Sta. Fe,'and
Asumpcion, where, though they committed no
slaughter, they carried off droves of horses.
With still greater boldness, they annoyed the
neighbouring towns of the Guaranies, by whose
liberality chiefly they were clothed and fed.
These predatory incursions we condemned,

