414 ms'ronv oF THE ABIPONES.

and thick woods, expired shortly on his return
horne.

P. Felix de Villa Garzia, a native of Castile,
in a Journey of some months, undertaken for
the purpose of dicovering the same Ytatines in
the Tarumensian woods, got an ulcer in his left
eye, which continually streamed with blood
and swarmed with worrnS, and which miserably
tormented this pious man for many years, and
at length put a period to his existence in the
town of Sta. Rosa. Δ

P. Romano HartO, a N avarrese, was danger-
ously wounded in the belly with two arrows by
those Mataguayos who slew and burnt his com-
panion Ugalde.

Father Joseph Klein, a Bohemian, who ac-
quitted himself admirably amongst the Abi—
pones for twenty years, received a blow on the
head from a young man of that nation, which
laid him prostrate on the ground, where he lay
for some time senseless and bathed in his own
blood, in the town of St. Ferdinand.

Father Martin Dobrizhoffer‚ whilst defending
his own house and the chapel against six hun—
dred savages in the town of the Rosary, had
his right arm pierced with a barbed arrow‚ the
muscle of his middle finger hurt, and one rib
wounded by a savage Toba‚ at four o'clock in

