HISTORY or THE ABIPONES. 305

use a Spanish proverb, macho era el ruido, pero
pocas las macces: great was the noise, but few
were the nuts. Many evaded the performance
of their promises altogether; others impudently
sent aged cows3 lame, lean, and dying horses;
old, bare, and diseased sheep3 and every thing
else in the same style. Many of those persons
whom the Governor employed in collecting or
keeping the cattle and other things, were defi-
cient either in fidelity or in diligence, reserving
some for their own private use, and exchanging
the better ones, which they kept to themselves,
for others of less value. It therefore is not to
be wondered at that the whole of Paraguay did
not contain a more indigent or calamitous co—
lony, of which I, who was forced to struggle,
for two years, with extreme poverty, and the
insolence of these savageS‚ had full and ocular
demonstration.

The Abipones, solicitous sor their security
above all things, themselves pointed out a
situation for the colony, seventy leagues south
of Asumpcion, four leagues distant from the
western shore of the Paraguay, and beset with
woods‚ rivers, and ma1·sheS‚ which rendered it
difficult of access to the SpaniardS, who had to
cross that vast river whenever they approached
it from their own city. This plain is called

von. 111. x

