Hisronv or THE ABIPONES. 157

horse, and went straight to the house of Ycho-
alay. “ This‚’' says he, “is the flesh of your
cow which Ι killed by mistake‚ thinking it be-
longed to the town.” ‘⁶ Fool,’' replied Ychoa-
lay in a rage, ‘⁶ do you think then, that you
may slay the herds of the colony with impu-
nity? The excuse by which you endeavour to
extenuate the criminality of the deed, serves
only to its aggravation. But now begone‚ and
since you have given yourself the trouble of
killing and fiaying the beast‚ take upon you
that of devouring it also.'’ So that, though
severe in avenging mischief done to the pro-
perty of the town, he was lenient towards those
who offended himself.

The Abipones, like almost all the Americans‚
dreading the most distant idea of slavery, will
scarcely perform the smallest service, unless
quite sure of a compensation. Whenever you
require anything of them, Mielca eneg‹}n labeve?
what will you give me? they eagerly reply.
They quietly looked on, whilst we were sad-
dling our horses, or cutting down wood, and
though they would not move a finger to our
assistance, employed their tongues lavishly in
our praise. ‘⁶ Bless me, Father! how well you
equip your horse! How dexterous‚ and strong
you are !'⁷ they exclaimed‚ though we should
have preferred their assistance to their enco-

