202 HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES.

CHAPTER XXI.

AN INEFFECTUAL EXPEDITION OF THE SPANIARDS
AGAINST THE ABIPONES.

AT length the Vice-Governors os Sta. Fe and
St. Iago resolved upon attacking the AbiponeS,
who had deserted the colonies, in their nor-
thern retreats, in order to chastise and restrain
their intolerable licence in plundering. Fran-
cisco de Vera Muxica, with fifty horse of Sta.
Fe, came to St. Jeronymo and joined Barreda,

who, though accompanied by five troop of
horse of St. Iago, admitted into his society the
Abipones who inhabit the town of Concepcion,
with the Caciques Malakin, Debayakaikin, and
Ypirikin, as these persons were well acquainted
with the ways, and the retreats where the sa-
vages are accustomed to conceal themselves,
Having, in a few days, travelled more than
thirty leagues northward, they reached a place
famous for capibarisâ€š but could not discover a
trace of the hostile Abipones, who, betaking
themselves to the well known recesses of the
woods, lakes, and marshes, daily eluded the
Spaniards. Seven armed Abipones showed

