346 HISTORY or THE ABIPONES,

CHAPTER XLI.

FOUR HUNDRED SPANISH HORSEMEN, IN CONJUNCTION
WITH THE ABIPONES, OVERCOME A NUMEROUS HORDE
OF TOBAS.

THE Governor, J oseph Martinez Fontez, being
laid up with a fit of the apoplexy, appointed
Fulgentio de Yegros, an illiterate, but brave
and intelligent man, to the government of the
province, during the period of his indisposition.
Congratulating himself upon this opportunity of
conducting a successful enterprize‚ Fulgentio
flew to our colony, accompanied by four hun-
dred¹ horse, in the design of undertaking a
joint expedition with the Abipones against the
TobaS, long so hostile to the whole province.
After some days' journey, as no signs appeared
of any hostile settlementS, the Spaniards began
to think of a return, alleging the difficulties
of the road‚ the scarcity of provisions, and the
weariness of their horses3 but this unseason-
able and inglorious design was openly con-
demned by the Abipones, who were possessed
with a greater thirst sor battle and revenge.
Their scouts, by means of the print of horses'
feet, at length discovered a populous horde of

