264 iils'rouv 01³ 'rma AB1PONE5.

wishes. He gave the Cacique Malakin a woollen
blanket, handsomely embroidered in various co-
lours; a gift which proved the most powerful
persuasive to his mind. Arrayed with this
elegant coverlet, the savage promised to mi-
grate, with his family, wherever Barreda chose,
v and prevailed upon the Cacique Ypirikin and
his followers, to make the same resolution.

But the followers of the Caciques Alaykin,
Oaikin, MachitO, and Zapancha, were afraid that
the Spanish soldiers would take them by force
whither they refused to go, and that should they
desert, Barreda would be angry, and fall upon
them bysurprize. Solicitous, therefore, to avert
this disaster, they secretly sent to the town
of St. J eronymO, to request the aid of their
old friend Ychamenraikin, who accordingly came
with a chosen band of soldierS, under pretence
of paying his respects to Barreda. This Cacique
was present at the repeated consultations which
Barreda held with our chiefs, and always spoke
with great earnestness in dissuasion of the pro-
posed removal3 but was so highly incensed at
a gentle rebuke he received from Barreda, for
meddling with other people⁷s concernS‚ that
though he dissembled his angry feelings in pre-
sence of the Spaniards, he immediately con-
ferred in private with Alaykin on the subject of
renouncing their friendship. Itwas his intention

