254 ΗΙεΤοΒγ OF THE ABIPONES.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE PERPETUAL DISTURBANCES OF THE TOWN OF CON-
CEPCION. ¹

AFTER an absence of =five months spent at St.
Iago, and in my journeys thither and back, Ι was
received by the people with great demonstra-
tions of affection3 and their joy was increased
by the liberal presents which I made them of
scissars, glass-beads, and other things of that
description. But the affairs of the town re-
mained in the same state as before: and there
seemed to be no hope of procuring tranquillity.
The Mocobios and their allies were always full
of menace, often committed actual mischief.
The elder Abipones, though they refrained from
molesting the SpaniardS‚ pertinaciously indulged
in their usual drinking-bouts ; but the younger
part could not be induced to remain quietly at
home, delighting to wander up and down, and
commit depredationS. The old women, obsti-
nately adhering to their ancient superstitious,
were not only averse to our religion themselves,
but endeavoured to inspire others with the same
dislike of it. No one would enter the church
unless induced by the hope of reward, and very

