390 msronv oF THE ABIPONES.

the pastures it was often lean, often insufficient,
and sometimes (which however happened but
seldom) there was none at all : for where could
the Missionary get beef if he wanted oxen, and

· if the Spaniards were as slow and niggardly in

supplying the colonies of the savages, as they
had been forward in founding thern? They
were extremely solicitous that the Abipones and
Mocobios should be tamed like wild beasts, and
guarded in the towns from slaying the Spaniards,
but took very little care to prevent them from
dying of hunger. In the towns of St. J eronymo
and St. Ferdinand, the estates were sometimes
reduced to such a wretched condition that,
having nothing left for their support, the Abi-
pones with their families were forced to go out
into the neighbouring plains sor the sake of
hunting. After they had been two or three
months absent, the fields which our entreaties
had prevailed with them to plough, were co-
vered with tares or browsed on by beasts, and
the loss of the expected harvest induced a ne-
cessity either of roving or starving; a very
pernicious alternative : for in repeated wander-
ings, often of many weeks, civilization and the
knowledge of the rudiments of religion, so labo-
riously instilled into them, were forgotten, and
they gradually relapsed into their former bar-
barism. The deficiency of sheep and oxen was

