226 HISTORY or THE ABIPONES.

poundS‚ broke all at once from the wall, and
were more than enough to crush me had they

touched any part of my body. What shall I v

say of my fare? Beef, either boiled or roasted,
was my daily dinner and supper, and if to this
some maize‚ or a melon were added, we thought
we had sared sumptuously3 for we had not yet
time to cultivate our fields or garden, to which
however, afterwards, we diligently applied our-
selveS. Bread was never even dreamt of. The
river supplied us with our only beverage, and
wine could seldom be obtained even for mass.
This scarcity of all necessaries will not be attri÷
buted to our own improvidence when it is re-
collected that the city of St. Iago, where we
had to procure everything, was a hundred and
seventy leagues from our town, that of Sta. Fe
sixty, and that we were often prevented from
attempting the journey by the inconvenience
and danger which marshes and wandering sass
vages occasioned. Such was the face of affairs
for two years in that town, which may be

called my apprenticeship amongst the savageS‚
and the trial of my patience.

