HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES. 37

entes, neither the soldiers nor the captains
were deficient in their duty. Bold incursions
were repeated against them, and many move-
ments and attacks made here and there. Spies
were sent, day and night, ν to observe the
motions of the enemy: but what Argus could
watch men whose greatest care and dexterity
were exerted to prevent themselves from being
seen? The Spaniards frequently attacked the
savages, but with various success3 they were
sometimes conquered, sometimes the conquer-
orS. Ychoalay‚ the leader of the Abipones,
was, in some skirmish, entangled by the sol-
diers in a noose used for catching horses, and
would have been strangled had he not quickly
extricated himself. But I firmly assert, that
the cause of the fruitlessness of so many expe-
ditions undertaken against the savages origi-
nated, not in the cowardice of the Spaniards, but
in their boldness and intrepidity, blinded by
which they were ignorant or insensible of the
dangers which threatened them, and judged
vigilance and swiftness unnecessary to their
safety. The circumstance I am going to relate
will be a proof of this. A company of Spanish
horse was placed in a situation obnoxious to
the enemy, as in an observatory. Whilst they
ought to have taken a complete survey of all
things in the open plain, they amused them-
D 3

