204 HISTORY oF THE ABIPONES.

of his companions, rejoined those who had gone
before him to the North, and became openly
inimical to the Spaniards. But there, as you
will presently hear, he at the same time ceased
to live and to be dreaded.

The last vain endeavour of the two Vice-
Governors confirmed the Abipones in their old
opinion, that they could never be subdued,
whilst scattered up and down the country, and
acknowledging no other authority than their
own; and this confidence doubled their bold-
ness in disturbing the province. The remem-
brance of those three Abipones‚ who were kept
in chains in the fort of Monte-Video, was a
bitter wound to the N akaiketergehes, and one
which they declared incurable except by a
plentiful effusion of Spanish blood. To appease
them, therefore, the Vice-Governors of Sta. Fe
and St. Iago requested the Governor of Bue-
nos-Ayres, to give liberty to those three cap-
tives, and restore them to their countrymen.
The Vice—Governor complied. But what they
had looked upon as a remedy to the disturbed
province, proved, on the contrary, the torment
and destruction of the Spaniards. The one
whose name has slipped my memory, had died,
long before, in setters; and Zapancha, attempt-
ing ssight, had thrown himself from a high

