216 ms'roRY oF THE ABIPONES.

he had for many years wearied with his inroads.
Above all, the countries of Cordoba and St.
Iago found him a destructive and implacable
enemy. Though afrequent attendant at drink-

ing· partieS, his conduct was exemplary in this
respect, that he always avoided the quarrels and
altercations incident to drunkenness. During
his whole life, he contented himself with one
wife, by whom he had two daughters and as
many sons, all remarkable for strength and.
comeliness. The eldest was the unfortunate
Pachieke, whom Ι have lately spoken of. The
Caciques Malakin, Y pirikin, Oaikin, and Zapan-

cha, xx 1th their followers, soon after joined
Alaykin, so that the new colony was wonderfully
increased by the accession of so many families.
These savages were attracted by the expecta-
tion of the clothes, presentS, and bees, which
was daily distributed gratis to all: and they
were not deceived in their hopeS, as the estate
of this colony was managed with more care and
liberality than that of any other. For besides
those cattle which Barreda had collected from
the opulent Spaniards, the Governor Martinez,
with money from the royal treasury, purchased
two thousand bulls out of Peru, and as many
elsewhere, and sent them thither. This number
waS, in a few years, increased to twenty thou-.

