46 urs‘roiu* or THE ABIPONES.

ney of many days and even weeks, the former
change their horses frequently in one day, and
consume a great deal of time in catching and
harnessing them. That fresh meat may be
always in readiness, they kill oxen every day,
so that much of their time is spent in cutting
the flesh, roasting and eating it, and in seeking
fuel for the fire to cook it with. It'is no
wonder therefore that the slowly pursuing
Spaniards are almost always eluded by the
savages who prosecute their ssight without in-
terruption, and that the soldiers of St. Iago
are dreaded on account of their swiftneSS.
Moreover the fires which the other Spaniards
kindle on the way are to be· condemned, be—
cause the smoke often betrays them to the
Indians. When their flour is consumed, the
soldiers of St. Iago support themselves by the
wild animals which they hunt on the way.
Few of thern are furnished with muskets3 their
chief arms are spears, which, though not of the
best quality, are more formidable to the savages
than the fire-arms of others. ’

Another of their excellencies is a wonderful
sagacity in exploring. None are quicker than
they at discovering the hidden retreats of the
savages, at finding any fugitive, whether it be
man or beast, or at bringing back any thing
stolen. This quickness at exploring enabled

„⁴² *Δ -1 Ν. - — . Δ

 

 

