riisTORv OF THE ABIPONES. 303

CHAPTER XXXV.

THE ORIGIN AND SITUATION OF A COLONY OF ABIPONES
NAMED FROM S. CARLOS AND THE ROSARY.

T HAT the corruption of one thing is the gene-
ration of another, and that insects are created
from putrid substances is affirmed by some
naturalists and denied by otherS, but certainly
such was the origin of this colony3 for it was
composed of Abipones who had deserted reli-
gion, and the other towns. Weary of Christian
discipline, and of the inactivity of peace, they
for some time vexed the territories of the Spa-
niards and Guaranies with slaughter and rapine:
but seeing themselves threatened, both behind
and before, with avenging arms, and being un-
able to discover any place of retreat where they
might conceal themselves from Ychoalay‚ they
provided sor their safety by artifice, since they
could not secure it by force of arms. Three
orators were sent to Asumpcion to petition‚ in
the name of the rest, for a colony, and priests
to instruct them in religion. The Governor,
Martinez Fontez, granted the request of these
wily legates with the utmost willingness‚
flattering himself that he should gain great

