350 HISTORY oF THE ABIPONES.

of the horses and scarcity of provisions as
excuses for hastening his return, and deferring
the attack upon that horde till another time3
but that time never came. All the sensible
Spaniards were indignant at the Governor’s
letting slip this long wished for opportunity of
destroying, or at any rate chastising the
atrocious nation of Tobas, whose daily business
and delight it for so many years had been to
cut the throats of the Spaniards They thought
that the society of the Abipones, who were of
so much service in seeking out and fighting the
enemy, might not hereafter be obtained without
great difficulty3 and that many would perhaps
atone with their blood for one man's fault in
neglecting such fair opportunities of victory.
Whilst the Abipones were absent on this
expedition, the defence of the colony entirely
devolved upon me, a charge in the performance
of which I underwent much trouble and anxiety;
for the neighbouring MocobiOS, learning from
their spies that none but the women and
children remained at home with me, repeatedly
approached us for mischievous purposeS. But
as I never ceased watching, day and night,
with unremitting vigilance, their insidious
attempts never succeeded but once, when they
carried off a number of excellent horses from

the pastures where they had been left to seed

 

