HISTORY OF THE ABIPONES. 301

niards anew in the calamities of war.” “ No
one,’' replied I, “ would be so foolish as to
credit such a calumny. We cannot confine the
savages within the limits of a little town, nor
restrain them from their habit of wandering,
unless we have plenty of provision at home.’'
The Vice-Governor‚ convinced, or more probably
alarmed by this speech, promised many things
for the preservation of the colony, and had his
powers corresponded to his wishes, this ex-
cellent man would doubtless have fulfilled his
promises. The ProviuciaL informed by me of
the ruin which threatened the colony from want
of cattle, immediately sent me a thousand oxen,
sor the support of the Indians ε by his liberality,
and the supplies of the Guarany towns, an
estate was founded on the opposite shore of the
Parana, which, not being exposed to predatory
incursions, abounded in cattle of every kind in
the space of a few years.

One thing is certain, that this colony of
Yaaukanigas was not preserved by the support
of the Spaniards, but chiefly by the vigilance
and industry of the Jesuits, and that it was
little indebted for assistance to the city of
Corrientes, which, on the other hand, derived
much advantage from it, remaining unmolested,
from the time of its commencement, by the
inroads of the savages dwelling in Chaco.

