292 ulsTonv OF THE ABIPONES.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

FRESH DISTURBANCE& CAUSED BOTH BY STRANGER&
AND BY THE INHABlTANTS THEMSELVES.

AT another time the colony was threatened
with a still more dangerous storm, but which
was averted by the valour of the Yaaukanigas.
More than three hundred Mocobios and Tobas
approached the town by a silent and hasty
journey. One of their number deserted‚—got
the start of his companions, and informed
Oaherkaikin’s Abipones, our neighbours and
friends, of the impending attaek; by which
means we received timely intelligenee of our
danger. Father Klein, seeing that we were
inferior to the enemy in point of number, with
his usual intrepidity crossed the Parana in a
boat, though a violent south wind had rendered
it exeeedingly rough‚ to¹ seek supplies from the
Vice-Governor of Cori-ientes. Meantime our
Yaaukanigas, who were constantly exhorted by
me to a strenuous defence of the colony, in-
dulged in drinking, as usual withv them When
they anticipate an encounter with the enemy.
For my part Ι neglected nothing which could

