rusTORY OF THE 'ABIPONES. 233

the fact, or vainly inveighing against it. Ychoa-
lay, ‹pmvoked at hearing of the liorses which
our pillagers had taken, flew alone and unarmed
to our colony, where he held forth to the inha-
bitants, from the horse on which he sat, about
instantly restoring the horses of the Spaniards.
But he was scoffed at by many of the by-
standers, and called a rogue and a knave by
Alaykin, whose son Pachieke, the chief of· the
plundererS, challenged him to single combat by
aiming at him with an arrow, to which Ychoa-
lay, scorning so youthful an adversary, bared
his breast. Provoked by these insults he be—
took himself to my house, saying‚ “ Your people
will not listen to me; what I cannot obtain by
words, I will extort by arms. If they do not
restore the horses forthwith, Ι shall return in
three dayS, and insist upon a battle, and I now
hasten home to collect as many soldiers as pos-
sible.” After passing the night with uS‚ he re-
turned in great anger to his colony. All our
endeavours to pacify and divert him from his
purpose were vain ; our Abipones too withstood
our entreaties, choosing to endure the worst
rather than restore the horses they had plun-
dered. My companion, presaging all sorts of
disasters, whatever were the event of this com-
bat, took a journey to the town of St. Jeronymo
for the purpose of appeasing· Ychoalay's mind,

